README.md, before:

Kubernetes deployment strategies
================================

> In Kubernetes there is few different way to release an application, you have
to carefully choose the right strategy to make your infrastructure resilient.

- [recreate](recreate/): terminate the old version and release the new one
- [ramped](ramped/): release a new version on a rolling update fashion, one
  after the other
- [blue/green](blue-green/): release a new version alongside the old version
  then switch traffic
- [canary](canary/): release a new version to a subset of users, then proceed
  to a full rollout
- [a/b testing](ab-testing/): release a new version to a subset of users in a
  precise way (HTTP headers, cookie, weight, etc.). This doesn’t come out of the
  box with Kubernetes, it imply extra work to setup a smarter
  loadbalancing system (Istio, Linkerd, Traeffik, custom nginx/haproxy, etc).
- [shadow](shadow/): release a new version alongside the old version. Incoming
  traffic is mirrored to the new version and doesn't impact the
  response.

![deployment strategy decision diagram](decision-diagram.png)

Before experimenting, checkout the following resources:
- [CNCF presentation](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1oPhfKye5Pg)
- [CNCF presentation slides](https://www.slideshare.net/EtienneTremel/kubernetes-deployment-strategies-cncf-webinar)
- [Kubernetes deployment strategies](https://container-solutions.com/kubernetes-deployment-strategies/)
- [Six Strategies for Application Deployment](https://thenewstack.io/deployment-strategies/).
- [Canary deployment using Istio and Helm](https://github.com/etiennetremel/istio-cross-namespace-canary-release-demo)
- [Automated rollback of Helm releases based on logs or metrics](https://container-solutions.com/automated-rollback-helm-releases-based-logs-metrics/)

## Getting started

These examples were created and tested on [Minikube](http://github.com/kubernetes/minikube)
running with Kubernetes v1.10.0.

```
$ minikube start --kubernetes-version v1.10.0 --memory 8192 --cpus 2
```


## Visualizing using Prometheus and Grafana

The following steps describe how to setup Prometheus and Grafana to visualize
the progress and performance of a deployment.

### Install Helm

To install Helm, follow the instructions provided on their
[website](https://github.com/kubernetes/helm/releases).

```
$ helm init
```

### Install Prometheus

```
$ helm install \
    --namespace=monitoring \
    --name=prometheus \
    --version=7.0.0 \
    stable/prometheus
```

### Install Grafana

```
$ helm install \
    --namespace=monitoring \
    --name=grafana \
    --version=1.12.0 \
    --set=adminUser=admin \
    --set=adminPassword=admin \
    --set=service.type=NodePort \
    stable/grafana
```

### Setup Grafana

Now that Prometheus and Grafana are up and running, you can access Grafana:

```
$ minikube service grafana
```

To login, username: `admin`, password: `admin`.

Then you need to connect Grafana to Prometheus, to do so, add a DataSource:

```
Name: prometheus
Type: Prometheus
Url: http://prometheus-server
Access: Server
```

Create a dashboard with a Graph. Use the following query:

```
sum(rate(http_requests_total{app="my-app"}[5m])) by (version)
```

To have a better overview of the version, add `{{version}}` in the legend field.

#### Example graph

Recreate:

![Kubernetes deployment recreate](recreate/grafana-recreate.png)

Ramped:

![Kubernetes deployment ramped](ramped/grafana-ramped.png)

Blue/Green:

![Kubernetes deployment blue-green](blue-green/grafana-blue-green.png)

Canary:

![Kubernetes deployment canary](canary/grafana-canary.png)

A/B testing:

![kubernetes ab-testing deployment](ab-testing/grafana-ab-testing.png)

Shadow:

![kubernetes shadow deployment](shadow/grafana-shadow.png)

Commit message:

Updates for Kubernetes, Helm, Istio, Rancher Desktop and application metrics

README.md, after:

Kubernetes deployment strategies
================================

> In Kubernetes there are a few different ways to release an application, you have
to carefully choose the right strategy to make your infrastructure resilient.

- [recreate](recreate/): terminate the old version and release the new one
- [ramped](ramped/): release a new version on a rolling update fashion, one
  after the other
- [blue/green](blue-green/): release a new version alongside the old version
  then switch traffic
- [canary](canary/): release a new version to a subset of users, then proceed
  to a full rollout
- [a/b testing](ab-testing/): release a new version to a subset of users in a
  precise way (HTTP headers, cookie, weight, etc.). This doesn’t come out of the
  box with Kubernetes, it imply extra work to setup a smarter
  loadbalancing system (Istio, Linkerd, Traeffik, custom nginx/haproxy, etc).
- [shadow](shadow/): release a new version alongside the old version. Incoming
  traffic is mirrored to the new version and doesn't impact the
  response.

![deployment strategy decision diagram](decision-diagram.png)

Before experimenting, checkout the following resources:
- [CNCF presentation](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1oPhfKye5Pg)
- [CNCF presentation slides](https://www.slideshare.net/EtienneTremel/kubernetes-deployment-strategies-cncf-webinar)
- [Kubernetes deployment strategies](https://container-solutions.com/kubernetes-deployment-strategies/)
- [Six Strategies for Application Deployment](https://thenewstack.io/deployment-strategies/).
- [Canary deployment using Istio and Helm](https://github.com/etiennetremel/istio-cross-namespace-canary-release-demo)
- [Automated rollback of Helm releases based on logs or metrics](https://container-solutions.com/automated-rollback-helm-releases-based-logs-metrics/)

## Getting started

These examples were created and tested on [Minikube](http://github.com/kubernetes/minikube)
running with Kubernetes v1.25.2 and [Rancher Desktop](https://rancherdesktop.io/) running
with Kubernetes 1.23.6.

On MacOS the hypervisor VM does not have external connectivity so docker image pulls
will fail. To resolve this, install another driver such as
[VirtualBox](https://www.virtualbox.org/) and add `--vm-driver virtualbox`
to the command to be able to pull images.

```
$ minikube start --kubernetes-version v1.25.2 --memory 8192 --cpus 2
```

## Visualizing using Prometheus and Grafana

The following steps describe how to setup Prometheus and Grafana to visualize
the progress and performance of a deployment.

### Install Helm3

To install Helm3, follow the instructions provided on their
[website](https://github.com/kubernetes/helm/releases).

### Install Prometheus

```
$ helm install prometheus prometheus-community/prometheus \
    --create-namespace --namespace=monitoring
```

### Install Grafana

```
$ helm install grafana \
    --namespace=monitoring \
    --set=adminUser=admin \
    --set=adminPassword=admin \
    --set=service.type=NodePort \
    grafana/grafana
```

### Setup Grafana

Now that Prometheus and Grafana are up and running, you can access Grafana:

```
$ minikube service grafana
```

To login, username: `admin`, password: `admin`.

Then you need to connect Grafana to Prometheus, to do so, add a DataSource:

```
Name: prometheus
Type: Prometheus
Url: http://prometheus-server
Access: Server
```

Create a dashboard with a Time series or import
the [JSON export](grafana-dashboard.json). Use the following query:

```
sum(rate(http_requests_total{app="my-app"}[2m])) by (version)
```

Since we installed Prometheus with default settings, it is using the default scrape
interval of `1m` so the range cannot be lower than that.

To have a better overview of the version, add `{{version}}` in the legend field.

#### Example graph

Recreate:

![Kubernetes deployment recreate](recreate/grafana-recreate.png)

Ramped:

![Kubernetes deployment ramped](ramped/grafana-ramped.png)

Blue/Green:

![Kubernetes deployment blue-green](blue-green/grafana-blue-green.png)

Canary:

![Kubernetes deployment canary](canary/grafana-canary.png)

A/B testing:

![kubernetes ab-testing deployment](ab-testing/grafana-ab-testing.png)

Shadow:

![kubernetes shadow deployment](shadow/grafana-shadow.png)
